write-flows-refactor (#14257)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/3.0rc/develop/write-flows.mdx

description: Learn the basics of defining and running flows.
---

Flows are the most central Prefect object. 
A flow is a container for workflow logic as code. 

## Writing flows

Flows are defined as Python functions. 

> Flows can take inputs, perform work, and return an output.

Author: ```suggestion
They can take inputs, perform work, and return an output.
```

> Like Python functions, flows can take inputs, perform work, and return an output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flows can take inputs, perform work, and return an output.
```

You can turn any function into a Prefect flow by adding the `@flow` decorator to it:

```python
from prefect import flow

@flow
def my_flow():
    return
```

> When a function becomes a flow, its behavior changes, giving it the following abilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a function becomes a flow, its behavior changes, giving it the following capabilities:
```

- All runs of the flow have persistent [state](/3.0rc/develop/manage-states/). Transitions between states are recorded, 
allowing you to observe and act on flow execution.
- Input arguments can be type validated as workflow parameters.
- Retries can be performed on failure.
- Timeouts can be enforced to prevent unintentional, long-running workflows.
- Metadata about [flow runs](#flow-runs), such as run time and final state, is automatically tracked.
- A flow can be [deployed](/3.0rc/deploy/serve-flows/), which exposes an API for interacting with it remotely.

Flows are uniquely identified by name. 
You can provide a `name` parameter value for the flow.
If you don't provide a name, Prefect uses the flow function name.

```python
@flow(name="My Flow")
def my_flow():
    return
```

## Running flows

A _flow run_ is a single execution of a flow.

You can create a flow run by calling a flow by its function name, just as you would a normal Python function.

> For example, by running a Python script or importing a flow into an interactive session and calling it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a Python script or interactive session, import the flow decorator and call the flow-decorated function.
```

```python
from prefect import flow

@flow
def my_flow():
    return
```

When a function becomes a flow, its behavior changes, giving it the following capabilities:

- All runs of the flow have persistent [state](/3.0rc/develop/manage-states/). Transitions between states are recorded, 
allowing you to observe and act on flow execution.
- Input arguments can be type validated as workflow parameters.
- Retries can be performed on failure.
- Timeouts can be enforced to prevent unintentional, long-running workflows.
- Metadata about [flow runs](#flow-runs), such as run time and final state, is automatically tracked.
- A flow can be [deployed](/3.0rc/deploy/serve-flows/), which exposes an API for interacting with it remotely.

Flows are uniquely identified by name. 
You can provide a `name` parameter value for the flow.
If you don't provide a name, Prefect uses the flow function name.

```python
@flow(name="My Flow")
def my_flow():
    return
```

## Running flows

A _flow run_ is a single execution of a flow.

You can create a flow run by calling a flow by its function name, just as you would a normal Python function.

> For example, by running a Python script or importing a flow into an interactive session and calling it.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, by running a script or importing the function into an interactive session and calling it.
```

When one flow calls another, the calling flow run is the "parent" run, the called flow run is the "child" run.

Nesting flows is a great way to organize your workflows and offer more visibility within the UI.
In the UI, each child flow run is linked to its parent and can be individually observed.

For most purposes, nested flow runs behave just as all flow runs do.
There is a full representation of the nested flow run in the backend as if it had been called separately. 
Nested flow runs differ from normal flow runs in that they resolve any passed task futures into data.
This allows data to be passed from the parent flow run to the child run easily.

When a nested flow run starts, it creates a new [task runner](/3.0rc/develop/task-runners/) for any tasks it contains.
When the nested flow run completes, the task runner shuts down. 
Nested flow runs block execution of the parent flow run until completion.
However, asynchronous nested flows can run concurrently with [AnyIO task groups](https://anyio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tasks.html) or 
[asyncio.gather](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#id6).

> The relationship between a child and parent flow run is tracked by creating a special task run in the parent flow run.

Reviewer: This seems confusing, maybe worth calling out more. A Flow run creates a task run to track its state. Maybe adding a schematic as a future to do?

Author: I think we should just remove this entirely. Its only relevant to the flow run graph and its obvious when you look at it.

This task run mirrors the state of the child flow run.

A task that represents a nested flow run is annotated in its `state_details` with the presence of a `child_flow_run_id` field.
A nested flow run is identified with the presence of a `parent_task_run_id` on `state_details`.

You can define multiple flows within the same file.
Whether running locally or through a [deployment](/3.0rc/deploy/serve-flows/), you must indicate which flow is the entrypoint for a flow run.

<Warning>
**Cancelling nested flow runs**

> Nested flow runs cannot be cancelled without cancelling their parent flow run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A nested flow run cannot be cancelled without cancelling its parent flow run.
```

> If you may need to cancel a nested flow run independent of its parent flow run, we recommend deploying it separately and starting it using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you might need to cancel a nested flow run independent of its parent flow run, we recommend deploying it separately and starting it with 
```

the [run_deployment](/3.0rc/api-ref/prefect/deployments/deployments/#prefect.deployments.deployments.run_deployment) function.
</Warning>

You can also define flows or tasks in separate modules and import them for usage:

```python
from prefect import flow, task

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

@flow(name="Subflow")
def my_subflow(msg):
    print(f"Subflow says: {msg}")
```

Here's a parent flow that imports and uses `my_subflow()` as a subflow:

```python
from prefect import flow, task
from subflow import my_subflow

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

@task(name="Print Hello")
def print_hello(name):
    msg = f"Hello {name}!"
    print(msg)
    return msg

@flow(name="Hello Flow")
def hello_world(name="world"):
    message = print_hello(name)
    my_subflow(message)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

if __name__=="__main__":
```

> hello_world("Marvin")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    hello_world("Marvin")
```

```

Running the `hello_world()` flow (in this example from the file `hello.py`) creates a flow run like this:

> <div class="terminal">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
$ python hello.py
15:19:21.651 | INFO    | prefect.engine - Created flow run 'daft-cougar' for flow 'Hello Flow'
15:19:21.945 | INFO    | Flow run 'daft-cougar' - Created task run 'Print Hello-84f0fe0e-0' for task 'Print Hello'
Hello Marvin!
15:19:22.055 | INFO    | Task run 'Print Hello-84f0fe0e-0' - Finished in state Completed()
15:19:22.107 | INFO    | Flow run 'daft-cougar' - Created subflow run 'ninja-duck' for flow 'Subflow'
Subflow says: Hello Marvin!
15:19:22.794 | INFO    | Flow run 'ninja-duck' - Finished in state Completed()
15:19:23.215 | INFO    | Flow run 'daft-cougar' - Finished in state Completed('All states completed.')
```

> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Here are some scenarios where you should choose a nested flow rather than calling tasks individually:

> - Observability: Subflows, like any other flow run, have first-class observability within the Prefect UI and Prefect Cloud. You'll 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Observability: Nested flows, like any other flow run, have first-class observability within the Prefect UI and Prefect Cloud. You'll 
```

> see subflow status in the **Flow Runs** dashboard rather than having to dig down into the tasks within a specific flow run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see nested flows' status in the **Runs** dashboard rather than having to dig down into the tasks within a specific flow run. 
```

See [Final state determination](#final-state-determination) for examples of using task state within flows.

> - Conditional flows: If you have a group of tasks that run only under certain conditions, you can group them within a subflow and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Conditional flows: If you have a group of tasks that run only under certain conditions, you can group them within a nested flow and 
```

> conditionally run the subflow rather than each task individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
conditionally run the nested flow rather than each task individually.
```

- Parameters: Flows have first-class support for parameterization, making it easy to run the same group of tasks in different use 

> cases by simply passing different parameters to the subflow in which they run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cases by simply passing different parameters to the nested flow in which they run.
```

> - Task runners: Subflows enable you to specify the task runner used for tasks within the flow. For example, to optimize 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Task runners: Nested flows enable you to specify the task runner used for tasks within the flow. For example, to optimize 
```

> parallel execution of certain tasks with Dask, group them in a subflow that uses the Dask task runner. You can use a different 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parallel execution of certain tasks with Dask, group them in a nested flow that uses the Dask task runner. You can use a different 
```

> task runner for each subflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
task runner for each nested flow.
```

<Note>
Flow run parameters cannot exceed `512kb` in size.
</Note>

## Composing flows

Flows can call [tasks](/3.0rc/develop/write-tasks), the most granular units of orchestrated work in Prefect workflows:

```python
from prefect import flow, task

@task
def print_hello(name):
    print(f"Hello {name}!")

@flow(name="Hello Flow")
def hello_world(name="world"):
    print_hello(name)
```

A single flow function can contain all of your workflow's code.
However, if you put all of your workflow logic in a single flow function and any line of code fails, the entire flow fails and must be retried from the beginning. 
Organizing your workflow code into smaller flows and tasks lets you take advantage of Prefect features such as retries, 
more granular visibility into runtime state, the ability to determine final state regardless of individual task state, and more.

You may call any number of tasks, other flows, and even regular Python functions within your flow. 
You can pass parameters to your flow function to use elsewhere in the workflow, and Prefect will report on the progress 
and [final state](#final-state-determination) of any invocation.

> We recommend small tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend writing small tasks.
```

When the nested flow run completes, the task runner shuts down. 
Nested flow runs block execution of the parent flow run until completion.
However, asynchronous nested flows can run concurrently with [AnyIO task groups](https://anyio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tasks.html) or 
[asyncio.gather](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#id6).

A task that represents a nested flow run is annotated in its `state_details` with the presence of a `child_flow_run_id` field.
A nested flow run is identified with the presence of a `parent_task_run_id` on `state_details`.

You can define multiple flows within the same file.
Whether running locally or through a [deployment](/3.0rc/deploy/serve-flows/), you must indicate which flow is the entrypoint for a flow run.

<Warning>
**Cancelling nested flow runs**

A nested flow run cannot be cancelled without cancelling its parent flow run.
If you need to be able to cancel a nested flow run independent of its parent flow run, we recommend deploying it separately and starting it with 
the [run_deployment](/3.0rc/api-ref/prefect/deployments/deployments/#prefect.deployments.deployments.run_deployment) method.
</Warning>

> You can also define flows or tasks in separate modules and import them for usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also define flows or tasks in separate modules and import them for use:
```

Nested flow runs block execution of the parent flow run until completion.
However, asynchronous nested flows can run concurrently with [AnyIO task groups](https://anyio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tasks.html) or 
[asyncio.gather](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#id6).

The relationship between a child and parent flow run is tracked by creating a special task run in the parent flow run.
This task run mirrors the state of the child flow run.

A task that represents a nested flow run is annotated in its `state_details` with the presence of a `child_flow_run_id` field.
A nested flow run is identified with the presence of a `parent_task_run_id` on `state_details`.

You can define multiple flows within the same file.
Whether running locally or through a [deployment](/3.0rc/deploy/serve-flows/), you must indicate which flow is the entrypoint for a flow run.

<Warning>
**Cancelling nested flow runs**

A nested flow run cannot be cancelled without cancelling its parent flow run.
If you may need to cancel a nested flow run independent of its parent flow run, we recommend deploying it separately and starting it using 

> the [run_deployment](/3.0rc/api-ref/prefect/deployments/deployments/#prefect.deployments.deployments.run_deployment) function.

Author: ```suggestion
the [run_deployment](/3.0rc/api-ref/prefect/deployments/deployments/#prefect.deployments.deployments.run_deployment) method.
```

### Class Methods

Prefect supports synchronous and asynchronous class methods as flows, including instance methods, class methods, and static methods. 
For class methods and static methods, you must apply the appropriate method decorator _above_ the `@flow` decorator:

```python

> from prefect import flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from prefect import flow

```

### Generators

Prefect supports synchronous and asynchronous generators as flows. 
The flow is considered to be `Running` as long as the generator is yielding values. 
When the generator is exhausted, the flow is considered `Completed`. 
Any values yielded by the generator can be consumed by other flows or tasks. 

```python

> from prefect import flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from prefect import flow

```
